[Index](../readme.md) /
[Signals Usage](./readme.md)

# OPC UA Eventtypes

## Suggestions (!) for using the event Properties/Components

<table>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Description (at definition in
  resp. specification)</td>
  <td>Additional information in
  specifications</td>
  <td>Suggestion of poss. value</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td>BaseEventType</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>EventId</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>EventId is generated by the Server to uniquely identify a
  particular Event Notification. The Server is responsible to ensure that each Event has its unique EventId. It may do this, for
  example, by putting GUIDs into the ByteString.
  [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>uid, generated by OPC UA Server (SDK might provide this when generating an event)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>EventType</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>EventType describes the
  specific type of Event. The EventType shall always be returned as value and
  the Server is not allowed to return a StatusCode for the EventType indicating
  an error.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>usually provided by SDK</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>SourceNode</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>The SourceNode Property
  identifies the Node that the Event originated from. If the Event is not
  specific to a Node the NodeId is set to null. [...]</td>
  <td>SourceNode Property
  identifies the ConditionSource. See 5.12 for more details. If the
  ConditionSource is not a Node in the AddressSpace, the NodeId is set to NULL.
  (Part 9, Sec. 5.5.2)</td>
  <td>NULL</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>SourceName</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>SourceName provides a
  description of the source of the Event. This could be the string-part of the
  DisplayName of the Event source using the default locale of the server, if
  the Event is specific to a Node, or some server-specific notation.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>[Specific value for Application]</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>Time</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Time provides the time the
  Event occurred. This value is set as close to the event generator as
  possible. It often comes from the underlying system or device. Once set,
  intermediate OPC UA Servers shall not alter the value.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Timestamp of error occurrence</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>ReveiveTime</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ReceiveTime provides the time
  the OPC UA Server received the Event from the underlying device of another
  Server. [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Timstamp when Server received the Event information</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>LocalTime</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>Message</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Message provides a
  human-readable and localizable text description of the Event. The Server may
  return any appropriate text to describe the Event. A null string is not a
  valid value; if the Server does not have a description, it shall return the
  string part of the BrowseName of the Node associated with the Event.</td>
  <td>It is supposed that any error
  message shown to users of the machine tool is transmitted with the <font
  ">AlertType</font><font "> in the </font><font
  ">Message</font><font "> Property inherited
  from the </font><font ">BaseEventType</font><font
  ">. (UA4MT, Sec. 9.1)</font></td>
  <td>message text</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>Severity</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Severity is an indication of
  the urgency of the Event. This is also commonly called "priority". Values
  will range from 1 to 1 000, with 1 being the lowest severity and 1 000 being
  the highest. Typically, a severity of 1 would indicate an Event which is informational
  in nature, while a value of 1 000 would indicate an Event of catastrophic
  nature, which could potentially result in severe financial loss or loss of
  life.</td>
  <td>To differentiate between
  errors, warnings and messages on the interface, the following
  convention<br>
    shall be used, with regard to the recommendations in OPC 10000-5:<br>
    Errors have a high Severity between 667 and 1000 and are using an
  AlertType.<br>
    Warnings have a medium Severity between 334 and 666 and are using an
  AlertType.<br>
    Messages have a low Severity lower or equal to 333 and are using a
  NotificationEventType. (UA4MT, Sec. 8.6.2)</td>
 <td>Severity of the event w.r.t. the OPC UA base spec and the UA4MT Spec</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>NotificationEventType</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Identifier</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Identifier
  is used to identify the notification. It should match the
  code given in the machine tool manufacturer's specification for the
  respective message.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Identifier of error in underlying system</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionType</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionClassId</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionClassId specifies in
  which domain this Condition is used. It is the NodeId of the corresponding
  subtype of BaseConditionClassType. [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>NodeId of a suitable ConditionClassType (if none is suitable, BaseConditionClassType)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionClassName</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionClassName provides the display name of the subtype of 
  BaseConditionClassType</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>see ConditionClassId,
  respective name</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionSubClassId</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionSubClassName</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionName</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionName identifies the
  Condition instance that the Event originated from. It can be used together
  with the SourceName in a user display to distinguish between different
  Condition instances. If a ConditionSource has only one instance of a
  ConditionType, and the Server has no instance name, the Server shall supply
  the ConditionType browse name.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>e.g. AlertType</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>BranchId</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>BranchId is NULL for all
  Event Notifications that relate to the current state of the Condition
  instance. If BranchId is not NULL, it identifies a previous state of this
  Condition instance that still needs attention by an Operator. [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>NULL (given there is no branching)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Retain</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Retain when True describes a
  Condition (or ConditionBranch) as being in a state that is interesting for a
  Client wishing to synchronize its state with the Server's state. The logic to
  determine how this flag is set is Server specific. [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>TRUE</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>EnabledState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>EnabledState indicates
  whether the Condition is enabled. EnabledState/Id is True if enabled, False
  otherwise. EnabledState/TransitionTime defines when the EnabledState last
  changed. [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>TRUE</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Quality</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Quality reveals the status of
  process values or other resources that this Condition instance is based upon.
  If, for example, a process value is 'Uncertain', the associated 'LevelAlarm'
  Condition is also questionable. [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Good (if no further knowledge exists)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>LastSeverity</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>LastSeverity provides the
  previous severity of the ConditionBranch. Initially this Variable contains a
  zero value; it will return a value only after a severity change. The new
  severity is supplied via the Severity Property, which is inherited from the
  BaseEventType.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>0</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Comment</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Comment contains the last
  comment provided for a certain state (ConditionBranch). It may have been
  provided by an AddComment Method, some other Method or in some other manner.
  The initial value of this Variable is NULL, unless it is provided in some
  other manner. If a Method provides as an option the ability to set a Comment,
  then the value of this Variable is reset to NULL if an optional comment is
  not provided.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>empty string (unless an OPC UA client can set a comment)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ClientUserId</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ClientUserId is related to
  the Comment field and contains the identity of the user who inserted the most
  recent Comment. The logic to obtain the ClientUserId is defined in OPC
  10000-5.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>empty string (unless a client can set a comment)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Disable</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>The Disable Method is used to
  change a Condition instance to the Disabled state. Normally, the NodeId of
  the object instance as the ObjectId is passed to the Call Service. However,
  some Servers do not expose Condition instances in the AddressSpace. Therefore,
  all Servers shall allow Clients to call the Disable Method by specifying
  ConditionId as the ObjectId. The Method cannot be called with an ObjectId of
  the ConditionType Node.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Method</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Enable</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>The Enable Method is used to
  change a Condition instance to the enabled state. Normally, the NodeId of the
  object instance as the ObjectId is passed to the Call Service. However, some
  Servers do not expose Condition instances in the AddressSpace. Therefore, all
  Servers shall allow Clients to call the Enable Method by specifying
  ConditionId as the ObjectId. The Method cannot be called with an ObjectId of
  the ConditionType Node. If the Condition instance is not exposed, then it may
  be difficult for a Client to determine the ConditionId for a disabled
  Condition.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Method</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>AddComment</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>The AddComment Method is used
  to apply a comment to a specific state of a Condition instance. Normally, the
  NodeId of the Object instance is passed as the ObjectId to the Call Service.
  However, some Servers do not expose Condition instances in the AddressSpace.
  Therefore, all Servers shall also allow Clients to call the AddComment Method
  by specifying ConditionId as the ObjectId. The Method cannot be called with
  an ObjectId of the ConditionType Node.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Method</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionRefresh</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionRefresh allows a
  Client to request a Refresh of all Condition instances that currently are in
  an interesting state (they have the Retain flag set). This includes previous
  states of a Condition instance for which the Server maintains Branches. A Client
  would typically invoke this Method when it initially connects to a Server and
  following any situations, such as communication disruptions, in which it
  would require resynchronization with the Server. This Method is only
  available on the ConditionType or its subtypes. To invoke this Method, the
  call shall pass the well-known MethodId of the Method on the ConditionType
  and the ObjectId shall be the well-known ObjectId of the ConditionType
  Object.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Method</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConditionRefresh2</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>AcknowledgeableConditionT<span style='display:none'>ype</span></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>AckedState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>AckedState when False
  indicates that the Condition instance requires acknowledgement for the
  reported Condition state. When the Condition instance is acknowledged the
  AckedState is set to True. [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>a) always True<br>
    b) HMI acked state<br>
    <br>
    (assumes acknowledge() is not possible with an OPC UA client)</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ConfirmedState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Acknowledge</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>The Acknowledge Method is
  used to acknowledge an Event Notification for a Condition instance state
  where AckedState is False. Normally, the NodeId of the object instance is
  passed as the ObjectId to the Call Service. However, some Servers do not
  expose Condition instances in the AddressSpace. Therefore, Servers shall
  allow Clients to call the Acknowledge Method by specifying ConditionId as the
  ObjectId. The Method cannot be called with an ObjectId of the
  AcknowledgeableConditionType Node.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Method</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Confirm</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>AlarmConditionType</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ActiveState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ActiveState/Id when set to
  True indicates that the situation the Condition is representing currently
  exists. When a Condition instance is in the inactive state (ActiveState/Id
  when set to False) it is representing a situation that has returned to a
  normal state. [...]</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>TRUE, set to FALSE as soon as error source goes back to normal </td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>InputNode</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>The InputNode Property
  provides the NodeId of the Variable the Value of which is used as primary
  input in the calculation of the Alarm state. If this Variable is not in the
  AddressSpace, a NULL NodeId shall be provided. In some systems, an Alarm may
  be calculated based on multiple Variables Values; it is up to the system to
  determine which Variable's NodeId is used.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Null</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>SuppressedState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>OutOfServiceState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ShelvingState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>SuppressedOrShelved</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>When an Alarm has any or all
  of the SuppressedState, OutOfServiceState or ShelvingState set to True, the
  SuppressedOrShelved property shall be set True and this Alarm is then
  typically not displayed by the Client. State transitions associated with the
  Alarm do occur, but they are not typically displayed by the Clients as long
  as the Alarm remains in any of the SuppressedState, OutOfServiceState or
  Shelved state.</td>
  <td></td>
  <td>FALSE</td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>MaxTimeShelved</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>AutibleEnabled</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>AudibleSound</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>SilenceState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>OnDelay</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>OffDelay</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>FirstInGroupFlag</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>FirstInGroup</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>LatchedState</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>&lt;AlarmGroup&gt;</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ReAlarmTime</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ReAlarmRepeatCount</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Silence</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Suppress</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Unsuppress</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>RemoveFromService</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>PlaceInService</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Reset</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>AlertType</td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
 </tr>
 <tr>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>ErrorCode</td>
  <td>The <font class="font6177">ErrorCode</font><font
  class="font0177"> is used for the manufacturer defined error code. Often this
  is a numeric code whose meaning can be found in the manufacturer's
  documentation for the machine tool.</font></td>
  <td></td>
  <td>Error Code</td>
 </tr>
</table>


